# International-Company-Layoffs

Overview

The International Company Layoffs Project aims to analyse layoff trends across various companies worldwide. This project includes data cleaning tasks performed using SQL and exploratory data analysis (EDA) to uncover insights and patterns related to layoffs.

Project Structure

- data/: Contains raw data files and processed datasets.
- sql/: SQL scripts for data cleaning and transformation.

Data Cleaning

Data cleaning is performed using SQL to ensure the data is accurate, consistent, and ready for analysis. The following tasks are undertaken:

Data Import: Importing raw data from various sources into a database.
Missing Values: Identifying and handling missing or incomplete data.
Data Normalisation: Standardising data formats and correcting inconsistencies.
Data Aggregation: Combining data from multiple tables to create a unified dataset.
Filtering: Removing irrelevant or redundant data to focus on key variables.

SQL scripts used for these tasks can be found in the sql/ directory. Each script is documented to describe its purpose and functionality.

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)

Exploratory Data Analysis is conducted to understand the dataset, identify patterns, and generate insights. Key steps include:

Trend Analysis: Examining trends over time to identify significant changes in layoff patterns.
Geographical Analysis: Mapping layoff data to visualise geographic distributions and regional trends.
Correlation Analysis: Identifying correlations between layoff rates and other variables such as industry sector or company size.

To get started with this project, follow these steps:

Clone the Repository:

Copy code
git clone https://github.com/NatalieWinny/international-company-layoffs-project.git

Set Up the Database:

Import the raw data files into your SQL database using the provided SQL scripts.

Run Data Cleaning Scripts:

Execute the SQL scripts in the sql/ directory to clean and preprocess the data.

Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions or improvements, please submit a pull request or open an issue.
